# Text-Analysis-Project

Please read the [instructions](instructions.md).

In my project I used the Gutenberg library to access the classic novels The Great Gatsby, and Pride and Prejudice. In my project I used the basic techniques we learned in class which consisted of processing and cleaning the text. After cleaning the data, I determined what were the most used and most unique words using count functions. I also attempted to use the text blob library to analyze character interactions from each of the books by what relationships were most frequently visited. One of the goals of my project was to get a closer look at character relationships within each story.  

To achieve my desired result, I started using the skills to clean the data by removing stop words, and tokenizing the words to all fit the same structure to make it easier to work with. From there I used simple count functions to a basic analysis of what words were more relevant or irrelevant, in the respective texts. To implement my idea of character interaction I used the TextBlob library which allowed me to splice the text into paragraphs which allowed me to observe which characters were interacting in the same moments throughout the book. This analysis also forced me to work with the NLTK library as TextBlob is built on the existing library. I chose this library because the way that TextBlob combines snippets of text allowed me to isolate specific moments. Learning how to use TextBlob was difficult, but AI helped me traverse many of the key factors that make the library successful. For instance, there is a special tokenization process for this library aside from the way we learned in class. AI also helped me determine which functions worked best to determine the result which was determining character interactions.  

What I found between the two texts was that Pride and Prejudice is a much longer book. The word count was 64112 words, while the Great Gatsby had 25883 words. Of which Pride and Prejudice had 7507 words within its vocabulary, and the Great Gatsby had 6181. For such a large gap in total words used, it was surprising to see a much narrower gap in overall vocabulary. The most common words in Pride and Prejudice were Picture and in The Great Gatsby Picture. These figures show us why the gap in vocabulary is so much lower than anticipated, due to the higher usage of the same words we see in Pride and Prejudice.  

For my analysis on character interaction, I did not get the results I was hoping for. I was only able to get a high of 1 interaction across most characters. After assessing problems with my code and reaching out to AI I was unable to determine how to get a more accurate assessment of character interactions.  Picture 

Picture 

 

In my project I found that I was able to process the texts and observe trends with individual words, and the correlations and differences between the two books. However, using chunks of text to observe the character interactions was not what I had hoped it to be. If I had more time, I would continue to learn more about TextBlob to enhance the analysis I got. I think I could have done a better job testing my character analysis to see where the problem was occurring, or if I needed to go a different route entirely. My biggest takeaway is that I have a lot to learn from various libraries and what they can do for me to better solve problems and analyze large data. AI was very helpful in clarifying and teaching the new libraries, but I need to do more research on different libraries to better understand what they can do for my projects. I wish I had more knowledge of libraries and what ones would be most helpful to complete a project like this.  
